Hello friends! I'm Max and you're
watching a video about my fifth year of
developing a small log cabin camp away
from people and roads in Karelia in the
previous episodes you might have seen
how I was building my off-grid cabin
from a typically large logs of about 40 cm (16 inches) in diameter
it is obvious it would have been easier
and faster to build a cabin using medium
sized logs but I decided not to cut a
single live tree rather I used the
available century-old pines
downed by a severe storm a few years
back in comparison to traditional sized
logs of 20cm diameter these 40 cm
logs are four times heavier initially I
had no plans to build a log cabin but I
couldn't just look at this high grade
construction lumber rotting and
infecting young pines with pests and
diseases this post-apocalyptic scenery
influenced me to pick up an axe and save
at least some of the downed pine logs
while clearing space for new trees
besides building the cabin I entertained
myself with other bushcraft projects
this season I did some gastronomical
experiments with a vertical grill and
built another tarp hanger that is a lot
larger than my old stretch film dome
storage I also modernized my swimming
pond by raising its water level and
carving granite steps to replace my
aging step-down ladder as well as
reinforced my bushcraft kayak before
making a long voyage along the cascade
of small local lakes now I have my own
fleet hidden on the right side of the
remote forest also a cut slabs for my
cabin's back door and experimented with
baking a spiral potato
even though I was baking it on a
traditional horizontal grill the result
was very satisfying
I also fished a lot and cooked fish
such as this pike using a Polish recipe
I improved my earth oven and learned to
bake hearth bread an excellent bushcraft
food that is delicious
easy to make and has a long shelf life
in order to make hearth bread I had to
make an irregularly shaped wooden door
and seal the gaps between the rocks
with clay this small time investment
paid off though it is such a pleasure to
sit at my pond and eat a freshly baked
loaf of bread in the middle of nowhere
another project I made this summer
was this shaving horse such
contraption was widely used by barrel
makers and carpenters in the past you
might have seen why I decided to make a
shaving horse in the previous video even
though I spent almost two days to
complete it I never regretted the time
loss it saved me time with my carpentry
projects later making the whole process
safer for example it would have taken me
two to three times longer to make this
traditional pot holder without a shaving
horse I made this bushcraft tar
distillery to produce tar and rosin and
used rosin to adhere legs onto this
primitive cutting board as you can
see a lot of my projects interconnect
with each other but the main reason I
made tar and rosing is for building a
traditional Viking boat
I need tar and rosin for its
waterproofing I carved a primitive
cooking mortar for my culinary
experiments I saw these traditional
wooden mortars during my trip to
Tanzania next season I'm planning to
make a mini-mill powered by a water
wheel in the meantime a good old cooking
mortar and pestle
will do in other words there were a lot
of interesting adventures and projects
during my three-week stay at the log
cabin but in this video I will focus on
the first week of my vacation as usual
everything started with the delivery of
supplies from my boat to the campsite
that is further inland this year I
brought a lot of gear and other needed
supplies if I didn't cut out a trail
through hundreds of downed trees a few
years back I wouldn't be able to bring
heavy equipments to my camp my new
custom-made modular backpack made the
moving process much easier this year I
got a new 3,000 watt generator to
replace the one that broke last season
if it wasn't for my friend who came to
my rescue with the temporary replacement
generator I wouldn't have those drone
shots you saw earlier
I made four trips to my boat and back
which got me pretty hungry so it is time
to start cooking at the beginning of an
expedition it is best to cook the most
perishable products first in my case
those were eggplants and marinated meat
that I just brought from the boat I
decided to cook them using a vertical
grill method which you might have seen
in one of my previous videos this one is
an expanded version where you can grill
multiple skewered dishes at once I'm
sure many people will say that skinning
egg plants is not the way to go
aesthetically here is my reasoning
because I will be vertically grilling I
can mix the taste of eggplants and meat
by positioning the meat on the top of a
skewer this way the sizzling fat will
run down enhancing the eggplants' taste
along with the smoke of the charcoal
this is why I peeled added diagonal cuts
and rubbed olive oil onto the eggplants
I was so hungry that I even added a
couple of skewered hotdogs to the
grill
friends, check this out you can ignite
smoke
I think it's called pyrolysis as you can
see my vertical grill is quite mobile
and you can easily move it to a
different location even while it is
burning which is a pretty convenient
feature to the vertical grilling method
these homemade metal log dogs came in
handy even though I usually use them for
carpentry work another advantage of
vertical drilling is that the fat
doesn't drip on the hot charcoals which
would produce toxins while burning so
even health-oreinted people don't
have to give up delicious food cooked on
the open fire my vertically grilled dishes
don't have any smell of burned fat or
toxins but rather smell of pure charcoal
smoke friends it is a pity the video can't
give you any taste or smell samples I
would love to share the taste of it with
each of you if you watched my previous
videos you probably know that I brought
and planted hundreds of deciduous trees
and bushes around my log cabin camp most
of them are growing in two nurseries not
far from the cabin it is important to
help them survive during the first years
in our harsh northern climate as it
often happens you can do two different
tasks at once during my long absence the
bottom of my pond accumulated a lot of
organic sludge which is an excellent
natural fertilizer for my saplings I
needed to clean the pond anyway but
throwing away organic fertilizer would
be remorsefully wasteful
so I decided to allocate a spot for its
composting I weeded the saplings first
luckily you can easily make out rare and
exotic trees from native plants then I
laid out a layer of weeds on the ground for
my improvised composter on which I
dumped the sludge I will use most of it
next year
when it turns into dark soil meanwhile I
used my last summer's stash of organic
sludge to fertilize my trees and bushes
the dried organic sludge collected from
the bottom of lakes or ponds looks very
similar to peat but it is by far more
valuable as a fertilizer while carrying
this water saturated sludge I came to a
conclusion that my dam works as a filter
separating and accumulating this sludge
coming from the forest lake into the
pond to prevent it from happening in the
future I will have to add an overflow
water pipe to my dam but I will do it a
bit later as it is time to change the
activity I scythed the grass and removed
some sod and soil to create a granite
embarkment in Karelia anywhere you stick a
shovel into the ground you will hit a
granite plate I'm going to carve out
steps into the granite embarkment to
replace my aging wooden step-down ladder
I cut the sod on one side of the pond
and moved it to the dam to reinforce it
and to raise the pond's water level note
all my pond cleaning activities resulted
in clogging the dam and raising the
water level in it the first step of my
ladder is already submerged under water
meanwhile the fresh sludge has dried out
a bit and I'm going to use a portion of
it for tree planting now this year
I brought saplings of black walnut northern
catalpa and heart walnut trees the heart
walnut saplings were a gift from one of
my subscribers in about 20 years there
will be a beautiful alley of walnut and
northern catalpa trees leading to the
log cabin I hope to see it then
Okay I'm done with all urgent tasks and
now it's time for some fun I decided to
entertain myself by making an overflow
valve in my dam the valve will help me
to quickly raise the water level in my
pond as needed
next year I'm planning to build a
waterwheel and a mini mill on the other
hand when I leave my camp I can leave it
open preventing the dam from working as
a sludge filter just letting it all
float downstream I avoided using green
wood on purpose because it will swallow
and can even crack the pipe this is why
I made the plug from a semi-rotted aspen
branch my new bi-metal bearded axe
helped to achieve a perfect fit if you
want to see how it was forged from a tie
plate and an old metal file I will leave
a link below
besides the axe making process the video
has beautiful nature footage of the axe
being tested in real world bushcraft
activities okay
the aspen plug is made and it is time to
install the whole contraption into the
dam's wall I recently found a clay source
near my camp which means I will be
making some ceramics soon meanwhile I
applied some blue clay on it as a
pressure-damping sealant to prevent the
plug from getting stuck or cracking the
pipe now I can raise the dam's wall even
higher without risking that it will be
destroyed by a high-water in the spring
I need to raise the dam's wall by about 3
feet (1 meter) to create enough water flow
for my waterwheel project next summer
it has been a dry summer so I decided to
mulch my southern nursery to slow down the
water evaporation here you can see
saplings of Alegan Birchs, indigo
trees, Amur Velvet trees, White Acacia
trees, German Medlar trees, Red Bud
Cercis, Scarlet Red Maple, Northern Catalpa, Black Walnut, Heart-shaped Walnut and
Manchurian Walnut as well as a few more
names
I either forgot or their tree saplings
didn't make it to this day
meanwhile you can see the water level
raised to the second step of the pond's
ladder and it is time to cook a meal I
already used up all perishable products
and I need to start procuring food
supplies to supplement the ones that I
brought with me cooking a fish soup is a
good solution to start conserving on my
supplies it is a simple and nutritious
meal a bushcraft fast food
as I mentioned earlier I brought a "bucket
of electricity" to the camp this year
along with many battery-powered devices
that I need for filming this video the
electronic devices filled a dedicated
waterproof duffel bag that I brought in
my boat you're looking at the charging
process of steadicams flashlights a car
battery an electric shaver smartphones
and a few power-banks because the
closest electrical outlet is many miles
away from here I always try to keep a
sufficient backup in case of generator
failure mostly for my power thirsty
video equipment such as my drone cameras
and laptop I also brought a couple of my
power tools such as a side grinder to
try them with my new generator
you've probably already guessed I'm
carving steps for my pond to replace the
aging wooden ladder
I made five years ago it could still
serve me another decade while the
granite ladder will compete with Great
Egyptian Pyramids in its longevity by
the way here is a cool hack if you are
wearing gloves you can quickly change
the side grinder's disc without using a
wrench it takes two quick hits and the
disc's flange nut will loosen you've
probably noticed I installed an XLR audio
connector as a surrogate "Plug-in" power
cord connector DISCLAIMER: The XLR power cord hack wouldn't pass electrical codes
in most countries please research this
beforehand if you decide to use XLR
connectors for your power tools I'm not
sure if it's necessary to have a dust
cover on my side grinder but since it
felt hot to the touch
I kept placing it in a waterproof bag
and cooled it in my pond periodically
during the grinding process making
granite steps for my pond was an
impromptu decision which is why I don't
have mason's chisels it is not a big deal
though if you have some tools and a
burning desire to do something you can
always makeshift the tools you need
at home I have a chainsaw attachment
that accepts a 12-inch diameter cutting
disc allowing you to make four-inch (10 cm) deep cuts I think I will make the next
step
using my chainsaw every now and then
people ask me how I manage to keep my
clothes clean while doing construction
work in my videos here's the answer I
use an old trick it is quick and easy to
wash clothes with your legs this way
your hands and back don't get tired the
legs can easily handle this simple task
moreover my hands and back even welcomed
the change of physical activity when I
went back to my step grinding work I
felt fully refreshed however I wanted to
mechanize the process and built a
waterwheel that could work as a washing
machine drum while being powered by the
water flow of this stream and of course it
is a bushcraft version of a waterwheel
made from local material using primitive
tools the waterwheel could also power a
mini mill, sharpening wheel, a forge
blower and perhaps even an electrical
generator please let me know what
applications of a waterwheel at my log
cabin camp would be the most interesting
for you
you're probably surprised that there is
an abundance of baby toads around here
this summer happened to be atypically
dry all the grass including the sod on
my cabin's roof turned yellow I suspect
this is why the toads decided to migrate
downstream and were doing it for five
days I should say it was very
inconvenient as you have to constantly
check where you're stepping luckily by
the end of the fifth day it started to
rain and the amphibians must have changed
their minds and stopped their migration
if working with hand tools being
surrounded by baby toads wasn't a
problem with power tools
I had to sweep them away first which was
a slight inconvenience to say the least
it is a pretty boring activity to grind
and polish rocks so I decided to take a
break and went fishing at the nearby
lake it doesn't take long to catch a few
perch in the forest's lake then I ground
up some pepper freshly ground pepper is
important for cooking I added salt and
pepper and pierced the fish onto two
curved sticks
note it is better to use curved sticks
as this way the fish will cook
horizontally preventing juices from
running out from its mouth lastly I
stuffed the perch with chopped onions
usually I add wild chanterelles to my
stuffing but there were no mushrooms in
the dry forest at the moment I get a
lot of questions about how I managed to
finish so many projects in one month of
my summer vacation the answer is simple
I always try to work on a couple of
projects at once here's an example I'm
cooking fish making tea and distilling
tar from pine roots all at the same time
ok
the lunchtime is over and I'm going to
finish polishing the granite step once
done I started to clear a spot located
downstream from the pond this is where
I'm planning to make an aqueduct that
would feed a clepsydra (a water timer)
and a sink made from granite or wood at
least it will be easy to wash dishes a
bit later I might even make a water
heater using a couple of copper pipes Four
summers ago I made another dam with a
drain pipe a little upstream
the second dam was supposed to help to
stabilize the water flow
I guess I inspired a local beaver with my
efforts and he built his own dam on the
top of mine the beaver clogged the drain
pipe too as soon as I declogged the drain
pipe the water flow got noticeably
stronger so now I know there is enough
height and waterfall potential for my
mechanical projects at the pond with 6
feet (2 meters) of height difference I
will be able to direct water into a
wooden duct creating an artificial waterfall
that could rotate a waterwheel the
waterwheel will mechanically power a mini
mill I even plan to grow wheat and
rye next year so that I could make flour
in the mini mill and then bake bread in
my earth oven such bread could be
considered 100% homemade as
you can see the local amphibians are
not afraid of me at all even though I
kept scaring away this frog it kept
stubbornly coming back to the granite
promenade perhaps it's because it
liked to sit on the hot granite I should
say it feels quite nice to stand
barefoot on a polished granite step
warmed by the Sun
in the future I have plans to raise the
pond's water level and to add rustic
furniture to the granite promenade it
should transform the look of the pond
for the better
here's an interesting observation a ripe
raspberry doesn't sink or even get wet
in water
there are raspberry bushes upstream and
if you throw something at the bush while
sitting in the pond the water will
deliver delicious ripe berries right
to you while I was enjoying the wild
berries the frog came back again and it
looks like it is making its own plans
about beautifying the pond
in conclusion I will demonstrate how to
drain the pond to prevent sludge from
accumulating in it during the offseason
I had to use my aluminum mallet to knock
the plug out lastly I decided to plug
the drain in the upstream dam so that I
wouldn't upset my neighbor the beaver
but I will have to make a larger plug
because I forgot that the drain pipe
here is slightly larger in diameter and
the plug that I brought from the
downstream dam is too small
as you could see besides working on the
granite step, tending to the saplings and
planting new ones I spent the first week
mostly on modernizing the dam and pond
the only additional project I managed to
finish was to make a primitive tarp
hanger I'm not going to get into details
because there is a separate video where
I showed how to make a dome and a hanger
using branches and tarp I will have to
say this summer I didn't get to use the
hanger because there was barely any rain
during my three-week stay at the log
cabin camp
this pile of sticks is what's left from
my stretch film dome the new hangar is
standing right where the plastic wrap
dome used to be I'm quite happy with the
hangar's design it efficiently protects
from the Sun and rain
the blue tarp that has a straight cut is
the same tarp that was presumably torn
by the Yeti this story comes from a
bushcraft mystery incident described in
one of my log cabin videos
I will bring my carpentry tools here to
work on projects during rainy days again
this is the "mystery tear"
and you might have seen this green tarp
in the video about my bushcraft kayak
and catamaran okay
this video has gotten long and it is time
to say goodbye I will only add that
during my three-week stay I filmed
enough material to assemble a couple
more videos of this length this is Max
Egorov from Saint Petersburg Russia if
you liked this video perhaps you could
share it with your friends let good
people watch good videos p.s. I only
produce one or two videos max a month
and if you don't want to miss new
content like this subscribe and click
the notification bell to stay up to date
with all of the latest content due to
YouTube's recommendation algorithm its
notifications have become more erratic
and unstable otherwise I hope to see
back on Advoko MAKES  p.p.s. for your
convenience I will leave a link to my
playlist of other bushcraft videos in
the description below...